docs/wiki/csgo/guides/lan.md, before:

---
title: CS:GO KZ Lan Server Guide
description: FKZ CS:GO Lan Server Guide
prev: 
  text: 'Back'
  link: '/wiki/csgo/guides'
next: false
---

# Summary

This guide will show you how to set up a CS:GO LAN server and how to install GOKZ / KZTimer plugins on it. Follow each of the steps from top to bottom, DO NOT skip any steps unless told to.
::: info
Note that this guide will NOT show you how to set up a Public, non-LAN server! This guide also does not work with CS2, only CS:GO.
:::
::: info
LAN Servers cannot be Globally whitelisted, and you won’t be able to set Global records on this type of a server.
:::

## Guide

### [Setup](/wiki/csgo/guides/lan/setup)

Server Setup and Usage, how to update it, how to run it.

### KZ Plugins

GOKZ / KZTimer Plugins, how to install them. Only install one of the 2.

- [GOKZ](/wiki/csgo/guides/lan/gokz) - Installing GOKZ Plugin
- [KZTimer](/wiki/csgo/guides/lan/kztimer) - Installing KZTimer Plugin

### Misc

- [Useful Plugins](/wiki/csgo/guides/lan/useful-plugins) - Useful Plugins to add
- [Maps](/wiki/csgo/guides/lan/maps) - Adding KZ Maps
- [Admin](/wiki/csgo/guides/lan/admin) - Setting Admins

## All the needed links

### For the Server

- [SteamCMD](https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/SteamCMD#Downloading_SteamCMD)
- [Metamod: Source](https://www.sourcemm.net/downloads.php/?branch=stable)
- [SourceMod](https://sourcemod.net/downloads.php?branch=stable)
- [MovementAPI](https://github.com/danzayau/MovementAPI/releases)
- [GOKZ](https://github.com/KZGlobalTeam/gokz/releases) - (Don’t use, if using KZTimer plugin)
- [KZTimer](https://bitbucket.org/kztimerglobalteam/kztimerglobal/downloads/) - (Don’t use, if using GOKZ plugin)
- [NoLobbyReservation](https://github.com/5Dotsu/NoLobbyReservation/releases) - Needed for csgo_legacy

### Extra

- [SteamID Finder](https://steamid.io/)
- [Steam GSLT Tokens](https://steamcommunity.com/dev/managegameservers)
- [Global KZ Maps BSP Files](https://maps.global-api.com/bsps/) - (Outdated)
- [FKZ Mirror For Global KZ Maps](https://maps.femboy.kz/)
- [Global KZ Maps Workshop Collections](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=2354897488)

Commit message:

add server browser command as tip

docs/wiki/csgo/guides/lan.md, after:

---
title: CS:GO KZ Lan Server Guide
description: FKZ CS:GO Lan Server Guide
prev: 
  text: 'Back'
  link: '/wiki/csgo/guides'
next: false
---

# Summary

This guide will show you how to set up a CS:GO LAN server and how to install GOKZ / KZTimer plugins on it. Follow each of the steps from top to bottom, DO NOT skip any steps unless told to.
::: info
Note that this guide will NOT show you how to set up a Public, non-LAN server! This guide also does not work with CS2, only CS:GO.
:::
::: info
LAN Servers cannot be Globally whitelisted, and you won’t be able to set Global records on this type of a server.
:::
::: tip
You can use `gameui_activate; gamemenucommand openserverbrowser` in your console to open the server browser.
:::

## Guide

### [Setup](/wiki/csgo/guides/lan/setup)

Server Setup and Usage, how to update it, how to run it.

### KZ Plugins

GOKZ / KZTimer Plugins, how to install them. Only install one of the 2.

- [GOKZ](/wiki/csgo/guides/lan/gokz) - Installing GOKZ Plugin
- [KZTimer](/wiki/csgo/guides/lan/kztimer) - Installing KZTimer Plugin

### Misc

- [Useful Plugins](/wiki/csgo/guides/lan/useful-plugins) - Useful Plugins to add
- [Maps](/wiki/csgo/guides/lan/maps) - Adding KZ Maps
- [Admin](/wiki/csgo/guides/lan/admin) - Setting Admins

## All the needed links

### For the Server

- [SteamCMD](https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/SteamCMD#Downloading_SteamCMD)
- [Metamod: Source](https://www.sourcemm.net/downloads.php/?branch=stable)
- [SourceMod](https://sourcemod.net/downloads.php?branch=stable)
- [MovementAPI](https://github.com/danzayau/MovementAPI/releases)
- [GOKZ](https://github.com/KZGlobalTeam/gokz/releases) - (Don’t use, if using KZTimer plugin)
- [KZTimer](https://bitbucket.org/kztimerglobalteam/kztimerglobal/downloads/) - (Don’t use, if using GOKZ plugin)
- [NoLobbyReservation](https://github.com/5Dotsu/NoLobbyReservation/releases) - Needed for csgo_legacy

### Extra

- [SteamID Finder](https://steamid.io/)
- [Steam GSLT Tokens](https://steamcommunity.com/dev/managegameservers)
- [Global KZ Maps BSP Files](https://maps.global-api.com/bsps/) - (Outdated)
- [FKZ Mirror For Global KZ Maps](https://maps.femboy.kz/)
- [Global KZ Maps Workshop Collections](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=2354897488)
